---
layout: page
title: About

---

![img]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/ryan_about.jpg){: .center-image }

# About

I'm Ryan Spletzer, a Software Developer in Information Research within R&D at 
Dow Chemical.

I've had experience in backend and frontend development, mostly in the .NET and 
ASP.NET (increasingly Core) stacks, and I am one of the biggest PowerShell fans 
you'll ever meet.

I'm neck-deep in DevOps, and automating everything I can using tools like 
PowerShell DSC on Windows and Chef on Linux, both on-premises and in the Cloud.

I takes a craftsmanship approach to software and strive towards best design 
patterns and mastering the full stack, utilizing tools that enable automated 
release pipelines and continuous delivery.

## Open source

I enjoy working on and contributing to open source projects and would encourage 
anyone interested to peruse my [GitHub](https://github.com/ryanspletzer) 
account.

## Dow Chemical

Since graduating college from Michigan State University in 2012, I have worked 
at The Dow Chemical Company in Midland, Michigan.

In my current role as R&D Software Developer, I help to create research-driven 
applications and solutions for the IR Systems Development team.

In addition to project work, I own and manage our Team Foundation Server (TFS) 
instance for Information Research and collaborate with our Information Systems 
group on co-administrating Dow's enterprise Visual Studio Team Services (VSTS) 
instance. I help drive improvements to our processes, promote usage of source 
control (primarily Git), package management and automated builds / releases, and 
help to organize work item tracking for the group.

I also own and manage Information Research's Web Farm, driving automation 
improvements with PowerShell DSC and implementing key architectural services 
like AMQP message queuing, worker services and scheduled jobs.

Dow is increasingly using Azure, and as a result I currently manage Information 
Research's Azure subscription and created the logical organization and security 
model of the resources we currently use.

In my first role in Dow's Information Systems department, I developed custom 
SharePoint and .NET solutions and applications as part of the Collaboration 
team. During this time I also had the opportunity work on the rollout of major 
implementations of SharePoint (FAST) Search 2010 and SharePoint Search 2013. I 
also helped to support and create branding solutions and tools for managing 
SharePoint 2013 upgrades in Office 365 Dedicated.

While in the group, I got my first exposure to managing TFS when rolling out an 
Enterprise TFS 2012 instance. This role wwas also where I first learned major 
architectural and software design patterns and gained key concepts around 
Application Lifecycle Management.
