---
layout: page
title: Linkfarm

---

# Linkfarm

## Software Engineering and DevOps

I've read more books and articles / seen more videos than this, but these are what I feel to be important and seminal
content that I refer to often. Presented in roughly the order I've read them:

* [Design Patterns](https://www.amazon.com/Design-Patterns-Elements-Reusable-Object-Oriented/dp/0201633612) - This is a
pretty foundational read, and though there are aspects at times that seem dated, a number of these patterns really stand
the test of time. Moreso, this book engages the mind to start thinking about software in a different way.

* [Scalable and Modular Architecture for CSS](https://smacss.com/) - I searched high and low for patterns for CSS.
There's pretty good prescriptive guidance when it comes to most programming languages, but when it came to a logical
organization pattern for stylesheets I wandered in the desert for a long time. Until I found this book. I have yet to
find a better approach.

* [Smashing Books](https://shop.smashingmagazine.com/collections/books):
[1](https://shop.smashingmagazine.com/products/the-smashing-book-1-digital-edition),
[2](https://shop.smashingmagazine.com/products/smashing-book-2),
[3 + 3 1/3](https://shop.smashingmagazine.com/products/smashing-book-3-digital-edition),
[4](https://shop.smashingmagazine.com/products/smashing-book-4-ebooks),
[5](https://shop.smashingmagazine.com/products/smashing-book-5-real-life-responsive-web-design),
and [more](https://shop.smashingmagazine.com/) - These books have come out at certain intervals over the years, and
although I don't claim to be a Designer of any sort, what I do know about web design has come from these series of
books. Smashing Magazine has also produced other non-numbered books on more specific subjects which are also great.

* [Learning JavaScript Design Patterns](https://addyosmani.com/resources/essentialjsdesignpatterns/book/) - Frontend
development has changed a lot but this book first introduced me to some fundamental concepts including the important AMD
pattern.

* [Microsoft Visual C# Step by Step, 9th Edition](
    https://www.microsoftpressstore.com/store/microsoft-visual-c-sharp-step-by-step-9781509307760) - I read an earlier
edition of this book, but you'll want to get the latest available. It's not exactly an earth-shattering book, but I
decided to retroactively add it to the list, as in hindsight it is a very good book to give to as an introductory book
to the C# language for someone who has not used it before.

* [C# Coding Conventions (C# Programming Guide)](
    https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/inside-a-program/coding-conventions) - I'm a big
proponent of "When in Rome, code like the Romans do," i.e. stick to the conventions of the communities surrounding a
given language. These are those conventions for C#.

* [Framework Design Guidelines](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/design-guidelines/) - Dovetailing off
of C# conventions is overall conventions for library design in conjunction with the .NET Framework.

* [Adaptive Code: Agile coding with design patterns and SOLID principles (2nd Edition) (Developer Best Practices)](
    https://www.amazon.com/Adaptive-Code-principles-Developer-Practices/dp/1509302581/) - This is one of those
unassuming books that winds up being totally earth-shattering. The SOLID principles are so well laid out this book, and
it goes into good depth on a concept that is pretty essential these days: Dependency Injection. And much, much more. I
cannot recommend this book highly enough.

* [Microsoft .NET - Architecting Applications for the Enterprise (2nd Edition) (Developer Reference)](
    https://www.amazon.com/Microsoft-NET-Architecting-Applications-Enterprise/dp/0735685355) - After reading Adaptive
Code, I recommend people read this book. It builds on those core concepts but takes them up a level into application
architectural patterns including DDD and the Domain Model, CQRS, Event Sourcing and more.

* [Building Microservices](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/0636920033158.do) - After reading the previous two books I
highly recommend folks read this one, as it builds on those concepts more. This is another earth-shattering book that
will entirely change how you look at software and deployment and a number of practices.

* [Pattern: Backends for Frontends](http://samnewman.io/patterns/architectural/bff/) - BFF is a key architectural
pattern called out in Building Microservices and one that I reference often in designing applications, especially ones
with multiple clients.

* [PowerShell Practice and Style](https://github.com/PoshCode/PowerShellPracticeAndStyle) - I looked around for a long
time on good conventions for writing PowerShell and came across this from the community. I follow these rules about
95-98% of the time, though Microsoft themselves will have slightly different practices -- what I wind up doing is
following convention based on the project, so that at least within a given project things are consistent. Common things
that vary per project are, brackets opening on the same line and the use of backticks.

* [Getting Started with PowerShell Desired State Configuration (DSC)](
    https://mva.microsoft.com/en-US/training-courses/getting-started-with-powershell-desired-state-configuration-dsc-8672)
- A great course for PowerShell DSC and PowerShell in general -- lots of great tidbits shared throughout by Jeffrey
Snover, the inventor of PowerShell.

* [Advanced PowerShell Desired State Configuration (DSC) and Custom Resources](
    https://mva.microsoft.com/en-US/training-courses/advanced-powershell-desired-state-configuration-dsc-and-custom-resources-8702)
- Another great course to get deeper on PowerShell DSC and PowerShell in general.

* [The DSC Book by Don Jones et al.](https://leanpub.com/the-dsc-book) - A good evergreen book on PowerShell Desired
State Configuration that continues to be updated. This book helps to fill in a lot of gaps an answer a lot of the niche
questions about PowerShell DSC.

* [The Phoenix Project: A Novel about IT, DevOps, and Helping Your Business Win](
    https://www.amazon.com/Phoenix-Project-DevOps-Helping-Business/dp/0988262592) - Another earth-shattering book. A
necessary read for any DevOps practitioner.

* [Scaling Git (and some back story)](
    https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/bharry/2017/02/03/scaling-git-and-some-back-story/) - I refer to this seminal blog
post by Brian Harry quite often, as it goes into great depth on how a large company like Microsoft standardized around
common engineering standards with Git and VSTS.

* [Pro Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2) - aka the Git Book. You only need to know a handful of commands to get going
as a normal Git user, but if you really want to understand the full breadth of the tool you need to read this book.

* [Mastering Regular Expressions](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/9780596528126.do) - No, I have not mastered them, they
are still hard. But, I at least have a better idea around DFA's and NFA's and how the different engines work having read
this book.

* [Zero Trust Networks](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/0636920052265.do) - This book takes your traditional concepts of
network security and flips them on their head, and presents a model of what modern identity and trust-based security
looks like - an earth-shattering book.

* [Learn SQL Server in a Month of Lunches](
    https://www.manning.com/books/learn-sql-server-administration-in-a-month-of-lunches)
- I began to get into a series of "Month of Lunches book" around certain tools and products I used every day but wanted
to round out my knowledge base on. This was one of them, gives a good, no-nonsense introduction to managing SQL Server.

* [Learn Active Directory in a Month of Lunches](
    https://www.manning.com/books/learn-active-directory-management-in-a-month-of-lunches)
- Similarly I wanted to round out my knowledge in Active Directory and this book was great for that.

* [Learn Windows IIS in a Month of Lunches](https://www.manning.com/books/learn-windows-iis-in-a-month-of-lunches) -
Similarly I wanted to rout out my knowledge of IIS and this book was great for that.

* [Learn Windows PowerShell in a Month of Lunches (Third Edition, 2017 or newer)](
    https://www.manning.com/books/learn-windows-powershell-in-a-month-of-lunches-third-edition) - I was fairly deep on
PowerShell by the time I started to pick up the PowerShell series of "Lunches" books, but I wanted to start with the
first introductory one to round out any aspects I may have missed, and understand if it was a good intro book to
recommend to others (and it is).

* [Learn PowerShell Scripting in a Month of Lunches (First Edition, 2017 or newer)](
    https://www.manning.com/books/learn-powershell-scripting-in-a-month-of-lunches) - The next logical book in the
PowerShell "Lunches" books was a good insight into creating maintainable PowerShell scripts. I frame these scripts as
useful pieces of long-lived business logic that could be packaged up and distributed as single Script modules (e.g.
`Install-Script`).

* [Learn PowerShell Toolmaking in a Month of Lunches (First Edition, 2013 or newer)](
    https://www.manning.com/books/learn-powershell-toolmaking-in-a-month-of-lunches) - The next logical book in the
PowerShell "Lunches" books was a good insight into creating PowerShell modules, including facets of cmdlet design. I
frame these modules as useful collections of related and cohesive commands taht could be packaged up and distributed as
cmdlet modules (e.g. `Install-Module`). (Not to be confused with compiled, C# binary cmdlet modules).

* [The PowerShell Scripting & Toolmaking Book (Leanpub evergreen book, limited print runs)](
    https://leanpub.com/powershell-scripting-toolmaking) - This is an evergreen, logical continuation of the PowerShell
"Lunches" books with additional advanced content.

* [The Release Pipeline Model](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/dsc/whitepapers) - This is a seminal
whitepaper that outlines a Release Pipeline Model that's especially oriented around Infrastructure / Configuration as
Code, using tools like PowerShell DSC and Chef.

* [The DevOps Handbook](https://itrevolution.com/book/the-devops-handbook/) - The logical successor to The Phoenix
Project. I had begun reading this book and we are currently reading this book as a team, but I can already tell it will
go into the "earth-shattering" category and thus is already worthy of this list prior to finishing it.

## Health

Over the course of 2016 and now into 2017 and beyond I started taking health seriously. In particular I lost 40 pounds
eating a well formulated ketogenic diet, which I consider a lifestyle and something I will do forever now. in 2017 I've
also started incorporating the gym into my diet after understanding the strong correlations between overall muscle mass
and longevity.

* [2 Keto Dudes](http://2ketodudes.com/) - This is the podcast that got me started on my keto journey and pursuit of
overall better health. I had listened to Carl Franklin for years on podcast .NET Rocks, and when he mentioned he was
starting a new podcast with his friend Richard Morris to document his journey through Ketosis to fix his Type II
Diabetes, I was intrigued, and knew I could do it, too. And I did. And I'm in the best shape of my life because of it.

* [The Ketogenic Forums](https://www.ketogenicforums.com/) - The dudes, being the software developer types, put their
skills and energy to work to set up these Ketogenic Forums, which is a great source of information for anyone who is
in the ketogenic lifestyle or thinking about starting the ketogenic diet.

* [The 4-Hour Body](http://fourhourbody.com/) - This book can be a little crazy at times, but I have to admit this was
the first place I heard about the concept of low carb and ketosis, and though I didn't understand it years ago when I
first read it, and I don't necessarily follow the "Slow Carb" diet Tim lays out (I stay pretty much low carb *most* of
the time), it has a lot of concepts that were ahead of its time. Still worth a read.
