---
layout: post
title: How to Build a Team from Scratch
date: 2025-02-22 00:00:00
description: >
  I often see avoidable missteps when people try to build a brand-new engineering team from scratch, and I believe there
  are a few rules of thumb that can help.

tags:
 - team-building
 - hiring
---

I often see avoidable missteps when people try to build a brand-new engineering team from scratch, and I believe there
are a few rules of thumb that can help. I work in the software engineering field, so I approach this mostly from that
perspective; however, this advice likely applies to other professional domains as well.

Opportunities to start a brand-new team from scratch can be exceedingly rare. More often, a manager inherits an existing
team or joins a new company where the team is already established. (As an aside: I believe breaking up well-functioning,
"jelled" teams should be a last resort â€”- unless the team's success and growth require splitting it to accommodate
another manager for ideal team sizes. More on that below.)

However, if you do have the golden opportunity to build a team from the ground up, this advice is for you.

This is not a post about the phases of "forming, storming, norming, and performing," nor about team camaraderie. Rather,
it focuses on how a newly minted manager should select and hire their first few team members for long-term success.

## Make Your First Hire a Senior Engineer

The most important point is that your first hire must be a senior-level person. This is a strong statement, and frankly
an opinion of mine, but it is the number one misstep I see managers and organizations make when starting a new team. You
need someone you can build the team around, and someone who will mentor early-career hires later on.

Too often, managers begin by hiring entry-level engineers. This can work if the manager has a strong engineering
background and can effectively act as the team's Senior Engineer or Tech Lead, but even in that scenario, it can be more
of a burden than expected. Your first hire should help set the team's standards, establish essential processes (such as
CI/CD), and have both knowledge and opinions about infrastructure as code, the cloud, and more. It is unreasonable to
expect this from an entry-level engineer on a brand-new team.

It is also important to note that your first hire will help set the tone and _will be responsible for interviewing and
hiring subsequent team members_. That is why the first hire on your team is so critical.

## Screen for "Learn-It-Alls" Instead of "Know-It-Alls"

As
[Satya Nadella](https://nextbigideaclub.com/magazine/conversation-microsofts-ceo-on-the-power-of-being-a-learn-it-all/17851/)
points out, it is best to seek out hires who are "learn-it-alls," not "know-it-alls." Avoid limiting your searches to
people who have hyper-specific skills with a single framework or tool. If someone is adept at learning, they can pick up
the tools you actually use.

The reality is that none of us uses the exact same tools and frameworks for years on end (and if you are, then I have a
Classic ASP Intranet to sell you) -- our industry changes too rapidly. With the advent of AI coding assistance, the
landscape will shift even more quickly. Look for people who are continuous learners, and ideally those who are eager to
become subject-matter experts in a problem domain.

## Manager Engineering Expertise is Ideal, but Not Required

Ideally, the manager building the team is a skilled engineer (with bonus points if they once reached Senior Engineer
before moving into management). Such a manager can guide the team technically and mentor them in engineering practices.
That said, while being a former engineer is helpful, it is not a strict requirement. If you are not a former engineer,
then it is doubly important to make your first or second hire a Senior Engineer.

I have seen highly effective teams led by non-technical managers who rely on strong technical leads and extend a high
level of trust to them. The opposite scenario can also work: a team of mostly early-career engineers managed by a former
engineer who acts as the Tech Lead. That often works best for smaller teams, where a single manager/tech lead can handle
the guidance and mentorship needed.

## Aim for at Least Three Members to Form a "Team"

A group of one or two people cannot realistically function as a "team." Once you have three people working closely
together, you start to see the dynamics of a real team.

As the team grows, pay attention to the ratio of Senior vs. early-career roles. For example, in a typical team of eight
with levels like Software Engineer I, II, III, and Senior, you might aim for two people at each level (maybe with one
Senior at Staff level). If you grow to ten, add one more Senior and one more at one of the other levels.

Be careful when you bring on multiple entry-level hires at once. They will need substantial onboarding and mentorship,
and that takes time and focus from your senior team members. If you are not in a rush to scale quickly, pace your hiring
to avoid overwhelming your more experienced engineers.

The ratio guidance above is based on a team that is working in a typical software engineering capacity -- however, there
are more advanced "problem domains" that may warrant skewing the team towards more senior roles versus entry level
roles. There are many such advanced problem domains out there, and I would expect you to know if you are operating in
one of them.

## Consider the "Two Pizza Team" Rule

I am a big believer in the "[two pizza team](https://aws.amazon.com/executive-insights/content/amazon-two-pizza-team/)"
rule: you should be able to feed your entire team with two pizzas, which generally translates to about eight people
(plus or minus two). (If you have a team of four that can wolf down two pizzas, then I am jealous of their metabolisms
and ability to not get heartburn.) Beyond this threshold, coordination costs rise significantly. If the team's size
exceeds this number, a consider a team split with the addition of another manager, much in the way that cells
grow and divide.

If you reach that point, congratulations: management sees that your work is valuable and you may get the chance to
become a manager of managers. Also, around eight people is a good threshold for practical matters like on-call
rotations. If the team has fewer members, the on-call burden can be disproportionately large unless you have first-level
support groups to help.

## Notes on Augmenting Your Team with Contractors

Many teams with an average of eight full-time members can handle one or two contractors without a huge coordination
cost. However, if you add too many, you will need to manage higher overhead in communication and onboarding.

Sometimes, temporarily adding more contract staff makes sense for time-bound projects (e.g., migrating systems from
on-premise to the cloud, or adopting a new observability platform for a backlog of existing services). Just be aware
that if half of your team is made up of temporary staff, you could risk losing critical knowledge or having the team
being overwhelmed if those contractors leave.

## Wrap-Up

These rules of thumb are just that: guidelines I have postulated over the course of my career in different industries and
team sizes. I have personally been a member of a teams as small as a size of one, and larger than fifteen. There is no
"one-size-fits-all" approach to building a team, but I believe that if you:

* Aim to make your first hire a senior engineer,
* Look for continuous learners rather than know-it-alls or people with only skilled in specific frameworks and tools,
  and
* Pay attention to team size and role level ratios,

you will set your new team up for long-term success.

Good luck building and growing your team!
